[gentle music playing]
[nurse speaking Japanese
over PA]
[Hiroshi. in English]
Okay. it's time for bed now.
Past time.
- Are you tucked in?
- [Cate] Yeah.
Okay. Close your eyes
and let the dreams come.
[Cate] I'm not sleepy.
Daddy.
Can you talk to me
just a little longer?
[sighs]
Hey. you remember
the song "Furusato"
my mother used to sing to me
whenever I couldn't sleep?
I thought you said
it was when she missed Japan.
Yeah. but. um.
it calmed us both
when we needed it.
[singing in Japanese]
[both singing in Japanese]
[nurse. in Japanese]
[Cate. in English]
Daddy? Are you there?
Why'd you stop?
Um. sorry.
I gotta go. sweetheart.
But the song's not finished.
Yeah. But. um.
this way you will have
something to look forward to.
How soon
are you coming home. Daddy?
I'll be home
before you know it.
I love you.
I love you too. Daddy.
- [baby crying]
- [nurse speaking in Japanese]
[nurses speaking Japanese]
[baby fussing]
[Emiko. in Japanese]
[speaks Japanese]
[chuckles]
Kentaro.
[hopeful music playing]
[chuckles]
[Kentaro cooing]
- [shushes. murmurs]
- [Kentaro fussing]
- [Emiko chuckles]
- [Kentaro cooing]
[Hiroshi]
Hiroshi.
[tense music playing]
[sighs]
Hiroshi.
[scoffs]
- [in English]
"I love you. Lee."
- Stop.
- "I always will."
"In another lifetime.
we could be together.
- Your Kei."
- I know what it says.
So did Bill Randa.
That letter
was with his things.
He knew
that you betrayed him.
And your betrayal
drove him away.
I don't believe that.
That's not who he was.
Billy loved you.
He wanted to be
the best father he could be
for you.
That's not what I remember.
No. I was just talking to him
driving into Kazakhstan.
He was saying we'd never
been away from you for so long
and h-he wanted to get
back home to you so bad.
This was two months ago.
My condolences on your loss.
But you still have
your other great love.
When you said "fieldwork."
I didn't know you meant
this far afield.
We didn't pick the spot.
The Titan did.
- Thank you.
- [May] Thanks.
[announcer] Attention.
all Apex Cybernetics personnel.
Titan arrival
in T minus 13 hours.
Stage two alert.
[chattering]
[sighs]
Are you having
second thoughts?
Aren't you?
Do we really think
my code's the answer?
Yes. I do. Corah.
You know.
this isn't a tiny Leafwing
you can perch on your arm
and feed peanuts to.
Do you really feel like
we can control this thing?
Yes.
Now. make sure
your code skill's
up to control Titan X.
No pressure.
I'm counting on you.
[Lee] You know.
you have every right
to be upset.
But can I ask you something?
What good is it doing you...
to live a life
that's so fixated on
wanting to change the past
that you can't allow yourself
to create a better future?
I mean. at some point.
you're gonna have to
move beyond
blaming everyone
for what they did
and start building
a life that's yours.
What do you expect from me?
Just pretend
none of this ever happened?
No. of course not.
Well. it would be convenient
for you. wouldn't it?
I'm not telling you this
for my benefit. Hiro.
but yours.
And hers and your children.
[dramatic music playing]
You got
your mother back. Hiro.
You did that.
Do you really wanna
push her away now?
Because if you do.
you're blowing off
the opportunity
to discover
one of the most fascinating.
fearless and unique
people alive.
All because you're mad
that a long time ago.
she just happened
to fall in love with two men.
I'd expect you of all people
might know
a little something about that.
[plane approaching]
Well. our ride's here.
All right.
Pack it up. everybody.
It's here.
[suspenseful music playing]
Director Barris.
if you... if you would
just hear me out.
Absolutely. If you can
explain to me
why you're headed
to South America
when Apex Cybernetic
is telling us
they have
a positive hit on Titan X
in the Bering Sea.
Because the last time
Apex told us
they had a "positive hit."
we chased a blue whale
halfway across
the Pacific Ocean.
So I don't trust Apex.
I don't trust them either.
That's why I need eyes
on the scene.
I can't
just call them liars.
A-A reliable source
has confirmed that they...
that Apex knows that Titan X
is headed to South America.
What source?
Uh... [stammers]
A highly respected
and confidential informant.
It's Colonel Shaw. isn't it?
Damn it. Tim.
The world's on a precipice.
I've got possible
Titan sightings popping up
all over the globe
and you want me to take
a valuable asset
off the board
based on
the word of a fugitive?
No. no.
It's not just Shaw's word.
He has evidence.
Uh. a migratory map
from Bill Randa's journals.
Okay. I stand corrected.
So I'm supposed
to trust a fugitive
- and a crazy dead man.
- Well. Apex does.
and they're not sharing
that information. Why not?
[tense music playing]
Look. sir. we cannot afford
to be wrong about this.
There are good people
on this ship
and equipment that can help.
But it's not going to do
any good in Alaska
because there is
nothing there.
Apex are our partners
in this.
- [Tim] Are they?
- And they have friends
in high places.
You understand?
All right. look.
If I back this play.
it's going to be
both of our necks
on that chopping block.
I'm going to need
more than your source. Tim.
Get me some proof.
[indistinct radio chatter]
Do you want to talk about it?
I'd rather talk about you.
You said you think
you can help. [sighs]
Did something happen to you
in San Francisco?
I think I heard something.
Heard what?
I went to
the Golden Gate Bridge
and there was
this vibration. like...
I don't know. a-a song
coming from the ocean.
You heard the ocean singing?
You know what?
I was drunk. [sighs]
It was probably nothing.
Okay. Pilot said
we land in two hours.
And then we'll go on shore
to Santa Soledad.
[sighs] By boat.
How do we know
that's where Titan X is going?
Oh. the people on this island.
they celebrated a festival
that foreshadowed
the return of this Titan.
They called it Co-Cai.
And Billy believed that
this was one stop
on its migratory route.
He predicted
Titan X should reappear
about every fifteen years.
He didn't live long enough
to see if he was right.
but if he was.
Titan X isn't due back
before 2023.
So. Bill Randa was late.
and we're six years too early?
By activating
the Suzuki device
on Skull Island.
it appears that
we have awakened Titan X
and brought it
out of Axis Mundi
ahead of its schedule.
[Lee] If its natural instincts
do kick in.
it should follow the path
it always has:
Skull Island
right back to Santa Soledad.
What do you think
Apex is gonna do
if it does show up?
Tim said the intel we got
from our little incursion
into Apex.
indicates they may be working
on a way to control the Titan
with a neural implant.
Probably air-launched
from a chopper or a drone.
But the real question is.
why are they keeping it
a secret?
[suspenseful music playing]
[Kentaro] It might explain
a lot about him.
The two families.
He was abandoned as a kid.
Maybe he never wanted to risk
being alone.
So you think
he needed a backup family?
A spare just in case?
He couldn't help himself.
It's the engineer in him.
Neither one of us
was a spare.
It doesn't matter
who came first.
He loved us both.
And left us both.
You didn't see him
when I told him
we thought you were dead.
He was destroyed.
He barely slept
for two years straight.
I finally get a chance
to see all of him now.
Not needing to keep himself
half hidden all the time.
[Keiko] Why did you keep
that letter?
It's all I had
left of you. Kei.
I could take it out
from time to time.
you know.
and kick myself for not
fighting harder for you.
Or pat myself on the back
for how noble I was.
How do we make this right?
We can't change the past. Kei.
And I don't think
Hiroshi's in any mood
to hear an apology from us
right now.
Even if it is owed.
Just give it time.
[Keiko] Hmm.
[Trissop] Hiya. Boss.
Jason. Are we ready?
We will be.
Just need a quick moment
for a chat.
So long as it's quick.
Security sweep
on the north shore
found a Zodiac boat
hidden in a cove.
[sighs]
They got here
sooner than I expected.
Corah's friends.
It was only a matter of time
before they showed up.
How do you want me
to handle them?
Do what you have to do
and make sure
they don't interfere.
We can't have them
leading Monarch here.
[Lee] Well. we were right.
Apex is here.
All right.
we gotta let Monarch know
and stay out of sight
until they get here.
[tense music playing]
[sighs]
Where did all the people go?
They moved on
after Monarch moved in.
I guess
living under a microscope
didn't appeal to them.
And the Titan
comes back here?
[Brenda] If our
recently acquired research
from Bill Randa is correct.
with Titan X on the loose.
it should return
to Santa Soledad.
But why? Wh... To do what?
To spawn. uh. to feed.
I imagine
we'll find out tonight
when the Titan arrives.
First we launch the drone
carrying the projectile.
Then we launch the projectile
into the Titan.
Unless someone were to
try and stop us.
- [May]
What are you talking about?
- Your friends. the Randas.
You know they're here.
What are you talking about?
Am I really
supposed to believe
you're surprised?
I mean. they were calling me
in Pensacola. but it's...
What? Brenda. it's not like
I need them in my ear
telling me how dangerous
and reckless and stupid
this is.
I hope
you don't believe that. Corah.
Of course I believe it.
But I also believe that
this is gonna work.
or else I wouldn't be here.
would I?
Well. let's get to it then.
[announcer] Titan arrival
in T minus 3 hours...
Look. That wasn't here before.
It's one of ours.
Doesn't look like
anybody's been here
for a while.
- You wanna have a look?
- Yeah.
[Hiroshi] Stay here.
Keep watch.
[scoffs]
[sighs]
1968.
Looks like Monarch
waited a decade
for that thing to come back.
before they packed it in.
Find anything?
[Keiko] No.
Nothing we can use. [sighs]
[Lee] Monarch should have
toughed it out.
but they didn't have
Billy's journal.
[sighs]
[melancholy music playing]
[Keiko] Billy was here.
He came back.
It's your drawing. Hiroshi.
[Lee sighing] Okay.
Hey. Hey.
[Keiko sniffling]
Hiroshi.
What I wrote in that letter--
- We don't have to
talk about it.
- Yes. We do.
Whatever you think
that letter means.
I need you to know
I loved your father.
With all of my heart.
Well. not all of it.
I chose to be with Billy.
I wanted us to be a family.
When I read that letter.
I was filled with anger.
At you. at Shaw.
For what you did to Dad
and what it made him do to me.
But then.
do you know what I felt?
Relief.
I always assumed
that he left because of me.
That I did something wrong.
That I wasn't his own
flesh and blood.
That he didn't really love me.
[Keiko] That's not true.
So. reading that letter
and finally understanding
that I wasn't the one
who disappointed him...
in a way it lifted
a weight off my shoulders.
[Keiko] If only
I'd been there.
If I hadn't taken
foolish risks.
The day I fell
through that rift...
It was me
who made the decision.
They both were against it.
And I convinced them
that I should be
the one to go down.
And that reckless decision
cost me years of my life.
Years I could have spent
with you.
Been there for you
as a mother.
Maybe then
you wouldn't have spent
so much of your life
feeling so abandoned.
I realize now
the people I disappointed...
Those mistakes were my own.
You own yours.
I own mine.
[phone ringing]
- What is it?
- [Tim] Hey. uh.
w-where are you?
I'm just seeing my family.
Something has come up. uh.
and I think you should
really get back to D.C.
I haven't seen them
in over a month. okay?
[Tim] Th-This is important.
This is important.
I'll see you next week.
No. wait. Don't hang up.
There's something here
you really need to see.
- Goodbye. Tim.
- [Tim] A-A fishing trawler
in the Western Pacific
hauled in
an old Monarch bag.
It has
"property of William Randa"
stenciled on it.
[Emiko speaking indistinctly
through door]
It's got field notes in it.
old maps. data tapes.
It might be from his
Skull Island expedition.
Yeah. [stammers]
I'll be back in a week.
A week? Are...
Are you serious?
There... There's
a treasure trove here.
Stuff nobody's ever seen.
[sighs] Can you please
handle this?
Yes. but I'm... [chuckles]
He's your father.
You're the only one here
that even knew him.
[sighs] I didn't know him.
I-I barely remember him.
Oh. I'm... Yeah. I'm-I'm...
I'm sorry. I just...
It's these readings
that we're getting
out of Janjira.
What's in here
could be really important.
I just... I'm sorry.
I just thought
you'd wanna be here.
I'll be on the next flight.
[suspenseful music playing]
[alarm blaring]
I'm picking something up
on sonar.
Range 1.000 meters.
It came out of nowhere.
Uh. what's the bearing?
What's the bearing?
Three-two-zero.
That's behind us.
[dramatic sting plays]
I think it's Titan X.
It's coming right for us.
Hard to starboard.
Bring us around
to heading two-two-zero.
Range 500 meters and closing.
Four hundred meters.
- [engines whirring]
- Come on.
- Three hundred meters.
- Dive.
[Titan X chittering]
[navigator]
Two hundred meters
and closing.
Oh. my God.
One hundred meters.
Contact imminent.
Brace for impact.
- [metallic bang]
- [ship creaking]
Contact heading south.
southeast.
Five hundred meters ahead.
Headed straight for
Santa Soledad.
[Tim] We're not gonna make it
in time.
We gotta tell Shaw.
[sinister music playing]
About ten miles out.
making a beeline
right for us.
Just like Bill Randa's map
told us it would.
[chuckles] Yes. Walter.
You were right.
Everything's proceeding
as expected.
It won't be a problem.
I have faith in Corah's code.
The synaptic link
will scale. yes.
And we'll have
a proof of concept.
Yes. I'll keep you updated.
It won't be long now.
[suspenseful music playing]
- [person 1
speaking indistinctly]
- [radio crackles]
[person 2 on radio]
The drone crew alert
for final drone check.
Next arrival in 20 minutes.
[Lee] Let's cut through
the old tavern
to get a better look.
[Keiko] It's so lifeless now.
[Lee] We have to stop Apex.
and we're running out of time.
All right. There's the drone
carrying the synaptic link.
You see those two
metal torches
on either side of it
up against the buildings?
We're gonna use those
to jam the rotors
on the drone.
[Cate] Wait. is that May?
[Brenda on radio]
Time to lock it up. Jason.
[Trissop] Okay. I got it.
Boss lady says we gotta go.
Yeah. I get that.
but I still need
to recompile the new module
and then make sure
the interface
doesn't bottleneck.
That sounds super important.
The thing is.
we just got confirmation
the Titan is inbound.
He'll hit our locale
in 16 minutes.
so let's not make perfect
the enemy of good. Hmm?
Perfect is our only option.
[Trissop] It's now or never!
Let's go!
You wanna know
what Apex is really up to.
let's ask.
[Hiroshi] Shaw! Shaw!
May!
What are you doing?
They know you're here.
You need to leave. Now.
[scoffs] That's not an answer.
Why are you helping them?
Because I feel like
the work that we're doing
could prevent another G-day.
We've made incredible progress.
We'll be able to control them.
[Keiko] Progress?
May. it's barbaric
is what it is.
Who gets to control them?
Brenda? Her boss?
Do you hear how naïve
you sound right now?
I sound naïve?
Jesus Christ. Cate.
we're trying to do
something good.
[stammers. pants]
Stay out of the way.
I don't want you guys
to get hurt.
Say she makes
a pretty compelling argument.
Then why are they
keeping this away from Monarch?
Yes. exactly.
If Apex truly believes
this is the answer.
why keep it a secret?
Why not share their success
with the world?
It makes no sense. Lee.
Because whoever holds
the other end of that leash.
can not only prevent a G-day.
but they can create
and pinpoint a G-day
to destroy
whatever or wherever
the leash holder chooses.
And that makes it a weapon
that can be sold
to the highest bidder.
Everything all right?
I told you I needed more time.
We all need more time. Corah.
- We make the most
of what we got.
- [rumbling]
[tense music playing]
[Scarabs shrieking]
- [Hiroshi] What's that?
- [Scarab shrieks]
It's starting.
[shrieking. chittering]
[Trissop] They're headed
straight for the launch zone.
Get everybody out of there.
[Trissop] Copy.
Clear the launch area. now.
[technician] Copy that.
Clear out.
[Trissop] Let's go. let's go!
Clear out!
If we're gonna do this.
now's our chance.
Let's go!
[technician] Ma'am. we have
a perimeter breach
at the launch site.
- When it rains. it pours.
- We gotta get that bird
in the air.
[grunting]
[Scarabs shrieking]
- Come on.
- Scarabs!
[scuttling.
shrieking continues]
Colonel. we need to go!
Everybody back inside! Run!
- Launch it or lose it. boss.
- Go.
Time to light this candle.
[rotors whir]
- [drone blasts off]
- [shouts]
[Scarabs shrieking. scuttling]
[grunts]
[Keiko panting]
Lee. run!
- Run!
- Go!
- [grunts]
- [Scarabs shrieking]
- [grunting]
- [Keiko] Lee!
[panting]
Lee? Lee? Are you hurt?
Let's get him inside. [panting]
[Lee groaning] Watch my leg.
[Kentaro] Come on. Come on.
- [Titan X warbling]
- [Kentaro] Come on.
We got you.
[Titan X chittering]
- [Scarabs chittering]
- [Titan X warbling]
[eerie music playing]
[warbling continues]
[chittering]
[bellows]
- Let me see. It's okay.
- [Lee groans]
All right. all right.
all right. [sighs]
Let me have a look.
This is gonna hurt.
[Hiroshi] Cate?
[Titan X groaning]
- [Hiroshi] Cate.
- [Titan X roars]
[roars]
[chittering]
[technician] We lost target.
Spin around for another try.
[beeping]
[bellows]
[chittering]
[breathing heavily]
[Hiroshi] Cate.
Cate.
[bellowing]
- Oh. my God.
- What the hell is she doing?
No. we have to stop!
- Get someone out there!
- No! No!
If this works.
this is how we save her.
This is
what we came here for. Corah.
[drone operator]
Drone has acquired target.
Fire!
[dramatic music playing]
[roars]
[electricity crackling]
[shrieking]
[groaning]
Got a connection.
That's good.
Do we have control now?
No. Synaptic link
is still uploading.
- [Titan X roaring]
- [Cate groaning]
I got you. I got you. Cate.
- [Cate whimpering]
- Are you all right?
Cate. we have to go.
[chittering. roaring]
[Brenda] Report.
[technician]
Intense neural firing
in the frontal cortex
and amygdala.
[May] Stand by
for full cognitive override.
We've disrupted
its somatic responses.
every muscle group
is seizing up.
[shrieking]
- [beeping]
- No. No. No. No. Wait.
The Titan has so many neurons.
The feedback loop
is causing massive data spikes.
I told you
that I needed more time.
Stop whining about time.
Pull it together. Corah.
I told you that we couldn't
scale the program
to something this big.
- Fix it. now!
- Are you kidding me?
The whole thing
is gonna crash.
[Titan X roaring]
Wait.
Where's Hiroshi?
- [Hiroshi] Come on. Catey.
- [groaning]
We're gonna have to run.
[electricity crackling]
[shrieking. groaning]
[stammering] Catey.
We gotta run!
- [Kentaro] Cate!
- Kentaro!
- Dad!
- No. get back!
Get back!
[shrieking. chittering]
[Cate panting]
Signal's dead. I've lost data.
We're in the dark here.
[system alarm blaring]
[eerie music playing]
- [May. echoes] Brenda. Brenda.
- We have to evacuate.
- [May] Brenda.
Evacuate!
Evacuate. now!
- Go! Come on!
- [workers clamoring]
[May] Go!
Let's go. come on!
Hey. come on!
You are not
going down with the ship.
Let's go.
[roaring]
[dramatic music playing]
[winces]
[people clamoring.
shouting in distance]
[panting]
Dad? Dad?
[breathing heavily]
Help! Someone help!
- Oh. my God.
[breathes heavily]
- Cate. are you okay?
Get help. Kentaro.
Oh. dear.
[Hiroshi] Are you okay?
- [Cate] Get help. please.
Just get help.
- [Hiroshi] Cate. [mumbling]
[grunts]
[Cate] You're gonna be okay.
I'm gonna get you help.
I missed so much of your life.
No.
So many...
moments.
So many lies.
You're gonna be okay.
[Hiroshi breathing heavily]
It's okay.
[Keiko] Hiroshi.
Hiroshi.
[in Japanese]
[singing "Furusato"]
[Hiroshi singing shakily]
[all singing]
[melancholy music playing]
- Hiroshi? Hiroshi.
- [in English] Dad?
- Dad? Stay.
- Hiroshi. Hiroshi.
[Hiroshi breathing heavily]
[Keiko. Cate singing
"Furusato"]
[whimpering]
[singing continues]
[Keiko. Cate crying]
Get the medic we have
over there helping these people
looking for signs of life.
Let's lock the site down.
Preserve everything.
Data. equipment.
I don't care
how damaged it is.
everything goes.
And above all else.
I want every single person
accounted for.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Kentaro] Help! Help!
Look. no one leaves
until the director gets here.
all right?
You understand? No one! Go.
- [Kentaro]
We need a doctor!
- [Tim] We need a medic!
[Keiko. Cate singing]
[distorted.
somber music playing]
[no audible dialogue]